# Grace-Follow-On-Satellites

**Background**
    The Gravity Recovery And Climate Experiment (GRACE) mission was launched by NASA in 2002. The primary objective of GRACE was to measure variations in Earth’s gravity field to track mass changes in the hydrosphere, cryosphere, solid Earth, and oceans. In contrast to single satellite approaches with one dedicated sensor, GRACE used a constellation of two satellites, orbiting one behind the other,featuring a suite of measurement systems. GRACE mission ended in July 2017. The GRACE Follow-(GRACE-FO) mission, which launched on May 22, 2018, will continue the work of the GRACE mission. GRACE and GRACE-FO are very similar satellite missions the principal observation of the GRACE and GRACE-FO missions are the ultra-precise measurement of inter-satellite distance between the two satellites. Distance between the two satellites changes because of the gravitational pull of the masses beneath the satellites. Therefore, tracking the change in the inter-satellite distance enables us to measure mass changes that happen on or near the Earth’s surface. Surface mass changes are caused by various processes, such as the melting of the Greenland ice sheet due to global warming and climate change or groundwater depletion in California’s Central Valley due to the overpumping of groundwater used for irrigation.

**Objective**
    The purpose of this project was to take a given set of data on February 22, 2024, from the two satellites and compute the inter-satellite range, range rate, and el, indicating the elevation angle (in degrees) of the GRACE-FO satellite #1 from the Satellite Laser Ranging (SLR) station in Maryland and plot them on the figures.
